All right, so next, let's talk about filtering. So when you are doing similarity search, in most of the cases, you are also going to have other requirements that you want to filter search result by, right? If you look at this documentation page, you can see all filter
operator that you can use. These are kind of like SQL operators so you can use not or equality or for numerical values you can use bigger or smaller or like and so forth. So let's say here we want to use for this again overheating
example here, but what we want to do is, by the way, this is what you are going to see in your demo, but you must change it to your own path, otherwise it's not going to return anything because it's not going to match. So I have this one in the path column up here, if you go to your table.
Okay, yeah, if you go to this table, chunk table, there's a path column and in the path column that is your path that you can filter by.
Yeah, right. So here I'm using the same query text, but this time I'm using filters and I want pad to be like this one. So if let's say you want to search for certain documents, then you can filter by those documents only. Here I passed in this document only.
And you can see that results are changed, results are returned based on only that document. Even though number of results is defined three, I only have two results, so that's why you see only two results here. What you can use is an example use case will be filtering by page number.
right? So you can say, bring me the results between these pages, or you can search by certain number of numeric value to filter by.
Now, let's talk about re-ranking. So, if you look here, we are filtering by certain fields, but it doesn't mean that actually this result is contextually relevant to our query. It is similar to our query, so the similarity search.
Meaning similarity, but it is not looking for the context, right? So, here I'm going to show an example here. So, in our first similarity search, we search for overheating prevention, right? So, you can see that the documents returned are...
quite actually related to this one, but this is more related to safety instruction than maybe battery management or vision model, right? So I will assume that the vision model is not going to have like really safety instruction.
And in the re-ranking, we are going to see that very clearly. So to define the re-ranking, all we need to do is we just need to pass a re-ranker, and we are going to use Databricks vector searches re-ranker that is already shipped with Databricks vector search. And we are going to define the column to re-rank by.
So in this case, this is our query and we want the similarities results to be re-ranked based on the chunk field. And in this result, you can see that actually this time the safety and compliance sheet is
getting up and higher because this document is more relevant, right, in contextually relevant to this query and the document order is changed. So this is how you do re-ranking. And this one was the 1st result in the example that I showed you in the beginning.
And this was again like the second, so you can see that the order is changed and now you can see the safety and compliance document is actually the first one because contextually this one overheating prevention system is more related to this one.
So that is how you do re-ranking.
While using Databricks vector search, there are some best practices. You can check Databricks documentation here for the best practices, but let's quickly discuss some of those best practices that you keep in mind. First, you need to minimize embedding dimension when possible. Of course, there's a trade-off between...
dimension reduction and also the retrieval quality. So if your test shows that a similar bigger dimension and smaller dimension model finding similar accuracy, then it is always better to prefer smaller embedding size.
Why? Because it's going to decrease latency, it's going to be faster, it's going to be cheaper. Then you need to define the number of results and use a smaller number as much as you can, right? So if instead of using, for example, 5000, you should use a smaller number so that it's returning.
the rest result and because of it's going to decrease the scanning time, the latency is going to be low.
Using the right CQ for your compute is very important. Databrick Vector Search supports standard and storage optimized, so there are two options that you can go for. You can check documentation for each of this and assess those based on your use case and see which one is better.
Storage optimized is very cheap compared to standard one, and the standard one has lower latency. So that's important to keep in mind. Use filters as much as possible to narrow the retrieval scope. So if you use filters, then it's going to decrease the scanning time and it should be
Pastor.
You should prefer the standard retrieval search over hybrid when you don't really need hybrid search, right? So ANN stands for approximate nearest neighbor. So this is a standard algorithm that is used by vector search for
standard similarity search. So it is faster and it has the highest query per second compared to hybrid search. But of course, it depends on your use case. If you have to use certain keywords for critical search cases, then you can use the hybrid.
But keep in mind that the standard search has highest points per second and it has lower latency.
Right, so that was it for this demo. Just to wrap up, in this demo, we showed how to prepare the source table for vector search. So we enabled change data feed for the table. Then we showed how you can use the SDK to create a vector search index. Then we showed different search methods.
These were standard similarity search, hybrid search, and the full text. Then we talked about re-ranking, how re-ranking works, and how you can use re-ranking with Databricks vector search. And finally, we talked about some best practices to keep in mind while using Databricks vector search.
That was it for this demo. I hope you enjoy it and see you in next demo.
