And welcome to this demo. In this demo, we are going to talk about how to build vector search for retrieval. So, vector search is a crucial component of retrieval agents in REG architecture, as we talk about vector search is important, as we need to search.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 0 minutos 23 segundos
For similarity of the user prompt to retrieve documents, retrieve additional information, and pass that to final generation model, so that we can generate and provide better answer. So, in this demo, we are gonna...
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 0 minutos 42 segundos
show how to create a vector search index using vector search. Vector search is Databricks' vector storage solution. Then we are going to talk about some advanced search methods and finally we are going to talk about re-ranking. All right, so
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 1 minuto 1 segundo
By the end of this demo, you should be able to identify the steps for computing embeddings. You should be able to configure and create vector search index using both SDK and UI, then you should be able to implement and compare.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 1 minuto 20 segundos
three search methods. The first one is classic similarity search, then hybrid and full text search methods. Then you shall be able to improve search precision through re-ranking and finally you shall be able to apply best practices for balancing
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 1 minuto 39 segundos
cost, accuracy, and refreshing strategies.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 1 minuto 44 segundos
So to run this lab, these are the requirements. First, you need to have a vector search endpoint created and ready for you. In the lab environment, this is already created for you. So if we go to compute,
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 2 minutos 3 segundos
and go to vector search, you can see that we have one vector search endpoint is ready and everybody in this lab environment is going to use this vector search endpoint because you don't have admin rights to create vector as search endpoints. That's why we already created that for you. So you don't need to do anything. It's just going to use that endpoint.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 2 minutos 27 segundos
Then we need to have a serverless compute version 4 to run this lab, and also required libraries are added to dependencies in serverless compute configuration. You shouldn't need to do anything extra here if you just select serverless and it is going to set the right environment version and install dependencies.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 2 minutos 49 segundos
But if you face with any problems, that's how you do that. You go to environment section here in serverless, and this shall be version environment version four is selected, and vector search Databricks vector search SDK is added here, which is a dependency for this.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 15 minutos 8 segundos
example here, but what we want to do is, by the way, this is what you are going to see in your demo, but you must change it to your own path, otherwise it's not going to return anything because it's not going to match. So I have this one in the path column up here, if you go to your table.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 15 minutos 29 segundos
Okay, yeah, if you go to this table, chunk table, there's a path column and in the path column that is your path that you can filter by.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 15 minutos 40 segundos
Yeah, right. So here I'm using the same query text, but this time I'm using filters and I want pad to be like this one. So if let's say you want to search for certain documents, then you can filter by those documents only. Here I passed in this document only.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 16 minutos
And you can see that results are changed, results are returned based on only that document. Even though number of results is defined three, I only have two results, so that's why you see only two results here. What you can use is an example use case will be filtering by page number.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 16 minutos 19 segundos
right? So you can say, bring me the results between these pages, or you can search by certain number of numeric value to filter by.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 16 minutos 31 segundos
Now, let's talk about re-ranking. So, if you look here, we are filtering by certain fields, but it doesn't mean that actually this result is contextually relevant to our query. It is similar to our query, so the similarity search.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 16 minutos 51 segundos
Meaning similarity, but it is not looking for the context, right? So, here I'm going to show an example here. So, in our first similarity search, we search for overheating prevention, right? So, you can see that the documents returned are...
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 17 minutos 10 segundos
quite actually related to this one, but this is more related to safety instruction than maybe battery management or vision model, right? So I will assume that the vision model is not going to have like really safety instruction.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 17 minutos 29 segundos
And in the re-ranking, we are going to see that very clearly. So to define the re-ranking, all we need to do is we just need to pass a re-ranker, and we are going to use Databricks vector searches re-ranker that is already shipped with Databricks vector search. And we are going to define the column to re-rank by.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 17 minutos 50 segundos
So in this case, this is our query and we want the similarities results to be re-ranked based on the chunk field. And in this result, you can see that actually this time the safety and compliance sheet is
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 18 minutos 9 segundos
getting up and higher because this document is more relevant, right, in contextually relevant to this query and the document order is changed. So this is how you do re-ranking. And this one was the 1st result in the example that I showed you in the beginning.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 18 minutos 29 segundos
And this was again like the second, so you can see that the order is changed and now you can see the safety and compliance document is actually the first one because contextually this one overheating prevention system is more related to this one.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 18 minutos 50 segundos
So that is how you do re-ranking.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 18 minutos 53 segundos
While using Databricks vector search, there are some best practices. You can check Databricks documentation here for the best practices, but let's quickly discuss some of those best practices that you keep in mind. First, you need to minimize embedding dimension when possible. Of course, there's a trade-off between...
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 19 minutos 13 segundos
dimension reduction and also the retrieval quality. So if your test shows that a similar bigger dimension and smaller dimension model finding similar accuracy, then it is always better to prefer smaller embedding size.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 19 minutos 32 segundos
Why? Because it's going to decrease latency, it's going to be faster, it's going to be cheaper. Then you need to define the number of results and use a smaller number as much as you can, right? So if instead of using, for example, 5000, you should use a smaller number so that it's returning.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 19 minutos 52 segundos
the rest result and because of it's going to decrease the scanning time, the latency is going to be low.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 19 minutos 59 segundos
Using the right CQ for your compute is very important. Databrick Vector Search supports standard and storage optimized, so there are two options that you can go for. You can check documentation for each of this and assess those based on your use case and see which one is better.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 20 minutos 20 segundos
Storage optimized is very cheap compared to standard one, and the standard one has lower latency. So that's important to keep in mind. Use filters as much as possible to narrow the retrieval scope. So if you use filters, then it's going to decrease the scanning time and it should be
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 20 minutos 41 segundos
Pastor.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 20 minutos 43 segundos
You should prefer the standard retrieval search over hybrid when you don't really need hybrid search, right? So ANN stands for approximate nearest neighbor. So this is a standard algorithm that is used by vector search for
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 21 minutos 3 segundos
standard similarity search. So it is faster and it has the highest query per second compared to hybrid search. But of course, it depends on your use case. If you have to use certain keywords for critical search cases, then you can use the hybrid.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 21 minutos 22 segundos
But keep in mind that the standard search has highest points per second and it has lower latency.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 21 minutos 30 segundos
Right, so that was it for this demo. Just to wrap up, in this demo, we showed how to prepare the source table for vector search. So we enabled change data feed for the table. Then we showed how you can use the SDK to create a vector search index. Then we showed different search methods.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 21 minutos 49 segundos
These were standard similarity search, hybrid search, and the full text. Then we talked about re-ranking, how re-ranking works, and how you can use re-ranking with Databricks vector search. And finally, we talked about some best practices to keep in mind while using Databricks vector search.
Norman Reynaldo Sabillon Castro 22 minutos 9 segundos
That was it for this demo. I hope you enjoy it and see you in next demo.