Lecture - Authoring Single AI Agents with Databricks Mosaic AI Agent Framework
This lecture notebook explores how Databricks supports the development of single AI agents through its comprehensive Mosaic AI Agent Framework. We'll examine the tools, frameworks, and best practices for creating production-ready AI agents on the Databricks platform.

Overview
The Databricks Mosaic AI Agent Framework provides a unified platform for authoring, deploying, and monitoring AI agents. This framework supports multiple popular agent development libraries including LangChain, LangGraph, DSPy, and OpenAI, while providing native integration with Databricks services like Vector Search, Model Serving, and MLflow.

The framework emphasizes production readiness through features like automatic tracing, comprehensive evaluation capabilities, and seamless deployment to Mosaic AI Model Serving. Whether you're building simple chat agents or complex multi-agent systems, Databricks provides the tools and infrastructure needed for enterprise-scale AI applications.

Learning Objectives
By the end of this lecture, you will be able to:

Understand the architecture and components of Databricks Mosaic AI Agent Framework
Explain the benefits of using ResponsesAgent for production-grade agent development
Identify the supported agent authoring frameworks and their integration patterns
Describe the deployment considerations for agents
Recognize advanced features like streaming, custom inputs/outputs, and retriever integration
A. Introduction to Mosaic AI Agent Framework
The Databricks Mosaic AI Agent Framework represents a comprehensive solution for building, deploying, and managing AI agents at enterprise scale. This framework addresses the complete agent lifecycle from development to production monitoring.

An Agent's Lifecycle
An agent's lifecycle can be summarized as follows:

Prepare data and create tools:
This phase includes AI-related ETL using Notebooks, SQL queries, and the Lakeflow suite. Typically, this is where the AI engineer embeds and indexes unstructured data with Vector Search.
Once the data is prepared, the engineer moves on to creating tools in either SQL or Python syntax and registers those tools in Unity Catalog for comprehensive governance.
Rapid prototyping with quality checks
In this phase, typically rapid tests are performed with AI Playground's no-code interface for rapid prototyping agents. Here you can specify a system prompt, select different models and compare them side-by-side and vibe check the results.
The AI engineer then evaluates the content with evaluation tools with MLflow 3, which is designed to help you identify quality issues and the root cause of those issues.
Once rapid prototyping has been completed, you can export the code from the playground and leverage mlflow.genai.evaluate() (read more here).
Evaluate and collect feedback
Test the agent against evaluation datasets using methods such as LLM judges, stakeholder labeling, and synthetic data. Stakeholder/domain expert feedback is gathered, typically through review apps or direct tracing of interactions.
Label data and feedback
Interactions and outputs are labeled to create high-quality benchmarks for testing future agent iterations. This creates an evaluation set that serves as ground truth for quality assessment.
Labeling sessions provide a structured way to gather feedback from domain experts on the behavior of your GenAI applications. You can read more about labeling sessions here.
Iterative improvement
Use feedback and benchmark results to identify and fix root causes of quality issues.
Evaluate multiple versions/configurations to achieve the desired balance of accuracy, safety, cost, and latency.
Deploy to production
The agent moves from development to a scalable, production-ready environment (often REST API via Model Serving). Here, agents are governed for access and compliance, leveraging components such as Unity Catalog for unified governance.
Monitor quality and performance
Post-deployment, agents are continuously monitored using the same evaluation and tracing tools as in development. Logs, traces, user feedback, and automated judges provide ongoing quality signals; new data from production interactions is incorporated into evaluation sets for future improvements.
AI Gateway-enhanced inference tables are automatically enabled for deployed agents, which provides access to detailed request log metadata when using the Mosaic AI Agent Framework with popular agent authoring libraries like DSPy and LangChain.
MLflow tracing can be leveraged for end-to-end observability.
Production monitoring for GenAI lets you automatically run MLflow scorers on traces from production GenAI apps
The demo that follows this lecture will focus on prototyping agents with supported frameworks.

single-agents-course.png

This lecture will be concerned with agent framework.

A1. Framework Architecture
Assuming you have completed initial testing of your UC/external tools both in Notebooks/SQL Editor and the AI Playground, you are now ready to take a look at agent frameworks. To aid with this, Databricks offers a suite of tooling to author, deploy, and monitor high-quality agentic and RAG applications with the Mosaic AI Agent Framework. This framework is built around several key components:

MLflow 3 Integration: Provides experiment tracking, model logging, and lifecycle management
ResponsesAgent Interface: A production-ready interface compatible with OpenAI Responses schema
Agent Authoring Libraries: Support for LangChain, LangGraph, DSPy, and OpenAI
Databricks AI Bridge: Integration packages that connect agents to Databricks AI features
Agent Governance: Tools and agents are registered and governed in UC; inference logs/traces via AI Gateway and MLflow tracing.
Mosaic AI Model Serving: Scalable deployment infrastructure for production agents
Evaluation & Monitoring: Built-in tools for agent quality assessment and performance tracking
A2. Requirements and Setup
To develop agents using the Databricks framework, you will need to be aware of some technical platform requirements and packages.

Core Requirements:

databricks-agents 1.2.0 or above
mlflow 3.1.3 or above
Python 3.10 or above
Serverless compute or Databricks Runtime 13.3 LTS or above
Installation Command:

%pip install -U -qqqq databricks-agents mlflow
AI Bridge Integration Packages: The Databricks AI Bridge library provides a shared layer of APIs to interact with Databricks AI features, such as Databricks AI/BI Genie and Vector Search. You can see the latest release notes and versions on PyPi.

databricks-openai for OpenAI integration
databricks-langchain for LangChain/LangGraph integration
databricks-dspy for DSPy integration
databricks-ai-bridge for pure Python agents (without dedicated integration packages)
B. ResponsesAgent: The Production Interface
Databricks recommends the MLflow ResponsesAgent interface as the primary method for creating production-grade agents. This interface provides compatibility with the OpenAI Responses schema while adding Databricks-specific enhancements.

If you are familar with ChatAgent, ResponsesAgent is meant to replace this interface for new agents.

B1. ResponsesAgent Benefits
The ResponsesAgent interface offers significant advantages over traditional agent interfaces, while also supporting wrapping existing agents in supporting frameworks.

Advanced Agent Capabilities:

Multi-agent support for complex workflows
Streaming output with real-time response chunks
Comprehensive tool-calling message history
Tool-calling confirmation support
Long-running tool execution support
Streamlined Development & Deployment:

Framework-agnostic: Wrap any existing agent for Databricks compatibility
Typed authoring interfaces with IDE autocomplete support
Automatic signature inference during model logging
If you are not use the recommended ResponsesAgent interface, you must either manually define your signature or use MLflow's Model Seignature inferencing capabilities to automatically generate the agent's signature baed on input examples. Read more here.
Automatic tracing with aggregated streamed responses via predict and predict_stream
ResponsesAgent requires implementing a predict method that returns ResponsesAgentResponse to handle non-streaming requests. On the other hand, for streaming agents, you can implement a predict_stream method. This goes beyond the scope of this lecture, but you can read more here.
AI Gateway-enhanced inference tables for detailed logging
B2. ResponsesAgent Schema Structure
The ResponsesAgent uses a structured schema for inputs and outputs:

Input Format (ResponsesAgentRequest):

{
"input": [
{
"role": "user",
"content": "What did the data scientist say when their Spark job finally completed?"
}
]
}
Output Format (ResponsesAgentResponse):

ResponsesAgentResponse(
output=[
{
"type": "message",
"id": str(uuid.uuid4()),
"content": [{"type": "output_text", "text": "Well, that really sparked joy!"}],
"role": "assistant",
}
]
)
B3. Wrapping Existing Agents
If you already have an agent built with LangChain, LangGraph, or similar frameworks, you don't need to rewrite it. Instead, create a wrapper class that inherits from mlflow.pyfunc.ResponsesAgent:

Basic Wrapper Pattern:

from uuid import uuid4
from mlflow.pyfunc import ResponsesAgent
from mlflow.types.responses import ResponsesAgentRequest, ResponsesAgentResponse

class MyWrappedAgent(ResponsesAgent):
    def __init__(self, agent):
        # Reference your existing agent (LangChain/LangGraph/OpenAI, etc.)
        self.agent = agent

    def prep_msgs_for_llm(self, messages: list[dict]) -> list[dict]:
        # Implement conversion from ResponsesAgentRequest messages to your agent's expected format
        return messages

    def predict(self, request: ResponsesAgentRequest) -> ResponsesAgentResponse:
        # Convert incoming messages to your agent's format
        messages = self.prep_msgs_for_llm([i.model_dump() for i in request.input])

        # Call your existing agent (non-streaming)
        agent_response = self.agent.invoke(messages)

        # Ensure string output; convert if necessary
        if not isinstance(agent_response, str):
            agent_response = str(agent_response)

        # Convert to ResponsesAgent format
        output_item = self.create_text_output_item(text=agent_response, id=str(uuid4()))
        return ResponsesAgentResponse(output=[output_item])
C. Supported Agent Authoring Frameworks
Databricks supports multiple popular frameworks for agent development, each with specific strengths and use cases.

C1. LangChain Integration
LangChain is a comprehensive framework for building LLM applications with extensive integrations and capabilities.

Key Features on Databricks:

Use Databricks-served models as LLMs or embeddings
Integration with Mosaic AI Vector Search for vector storage
MLflow experiment tracking and performance monitoring
MLflow Tracing for development and production observability
PySpark DataFrame loader for seamless data integration
Spark DataFrame Agent and Databricks SQL Agent for natural language querying
Example Usage:

from databricks_langchain import ChatDatabricks

chat_model = ChatDatabricks(
endpoint="databricks-gpt-5-1",
temperature=0.1,
max_tokens=250,
)
chat_model.invoke("How to use Databricks?")
Keep in mind that LangChain on Databricks for LLM development are experiemental features and the API definitions might change over time.

C2. DSPy Framework
DSPy is a framework for programmatically defining and optimizing generative AI agents with automated prompt engineering capabilities.

Core DSPy Components:

Modules: Components handling specific text transformations (replacing hand-written prompts)
Signatures: Natural language descriptions of input/output behavior ("question -> answer")
Compiler: Optimization tool that improves pipelines by adjusting modules for performance metrics
Program: Connected modules forming a pipeline for complex tasks
DSPy Advantages:

Automated prompt optimization
Systematic approach to agent improvement
Built-in performance optimization capabilities
Programmatic rather than manual prompt engineering
C3. OpenAI Integration
Databricks provides native support for OpenAI-style agents while leveraging Databricks-hosted models.

Integration Benefits:

Use familiar OpenAI API patterns
Leverage Databricks Foundation Model APIs
Seamless migration from OpenAI to Databricks models
Support for both streaming and non-streaming responses
Tool-calling capabilities with Databricks models
C4. LangGraph for Complex Workflows
LangGraph extends LangChain with graph-based agent orchestration for more complex, stateful workflows.

LangGraph Capabilities:

Graph-based agent workflows
State management across agent interactions
Complex decision trees and conditional logic
Multi-step reasoning and tool coordination
D. Streaming and Real-Time Responses
Streaming capabilities allow agents to provide real-time responses in chunks, improving user experience and enabling interactive applications. The idea is to wait for a complete response before sending the result to a user. With MLflow, you can not only view the agent's response, but also these chunks and thought processes, which can lead to insight as to why it chose or did not choose to use a particular tool.

The Knowledge Assistant with Agent Bricks has full streaming support, as seen in the screenshot below showing the trace of a KA response.

mlflow-ui.png

Example of chunked tracing with MLflow via the Knowledge Assistant with Agent Bricks.

D1. Streaming Implementation
To implement streaming with ResponsesAgent, follow this pattern:

Emit Delta Events: Send multiple output_text.delta events with the same item_id
Finish with Done Event: Send a final response.output_item.done event containing complete output
Streaming Benefits:

Real-time user feedback
Improved perceived performance
Better user engagement for long-running operations
Automatic MLflow tracing integration
Aggregated responses in AI Gateway inference tables
mlflow-chunking.png

Streaming responses with MLflow via chunks of outputs that are rendered as a complete thought.

D2. Error Handling in Streaming
Mosaic AI propagates streaming errors through the last token under databricks_output.error:

{
  "delta": "...",
  "databricks_output": {
    "trace": {...},
    "error": {
      "error_code": "BAD_REQUEST",
      "message": "TimeoutException: Tool XYZ failed to execute."
    }
  }
}
Note: Client applications must handle and surface these errors appropriately.

E. (Optional) Advanced Features and Customization
The Databricks Agent Framework provides several advanced features for sophisticated agent implementations. The topics given below go beyond the scope of this course.

E1. Custom Inputs and Outputs
Some scenarios require additional agent inputs (like client_type, session_id) or outputs (like retrieval source links) that shouldn't be included in chat history.

Custom Fields Support:

custom_inputs: Additional input parameters beyond standard messages. You can read more about custom inputs and output here.
custom_outputs: Additional output data not part of conversation flow
Access via request.custom_inputs in agent code
JSON configuration in AI Playground and review apps
Important Limitation: The Agent Evaluation review app does not support rendering traces for agents with additional input fields.

You can read more about advanced features in this regard here. This goes beyond the scope of this course.

E2. Retriever Integration and Schema
AI agents commonly use retrievers for unstructured data from vector search indices. Databricks provides specialized support for retriever tracing and evaluation. You can read more about retriever integration here.

Retriever Benefits:

Automatic source document links in AI Playground UI
Automatic retrieval groundedness and relevance evaluation
Integration with Databricks AI Bridge retriever tools
Custom Retriever Schema:

import mlflow

mlflow.models.set_retriever_schema(
name="mlflow_docs_vector_search",
primary_key="document_id",      # Document ID field
text_column="chunk_text",       # Content field
doc_uri="doc_uri",             # Document URI field
other_columns=["title"],        # Additional metadata
)
This goes beyond the scope of this course. You can read more about retriever tools here.

E3. Multi-Agent Systems
Databricks supports complex multi-agent systems where multiple specialized agents collaborate to solve problems.

This goes beyond the scope of this course. To learn more about multi-agent systems managed by databricks, you can read documentation on Genie and Agent Bricks. You can read more about Genie with multi-agents systems here.

E4. Stateful Agents
Stateful agents can maintain memory across conversation threads and provide conversation checkpointing capabilities.

This goes beyond the scope of this course. To learn more about stateful agents, please see this documentation. You can read more about stateful AI agents here.

Conclusion
The Databricks Mosaic AI Agent Framework provides a comprehensive platform for building production-ready AI agents. Key takeaways include understanding popular framework strengths (e.g. LangChain), develop and understanding for best practices when building an agent's lifecycle, and production considerations.

© 2026 Databricks, Inc. All rights reserved. Apache, Apache Spark, Spark, the Spark Logo, Apache Iceberg, Iceberg, and the Apache Iceberg logo are trademarks of the Apache Software Foundation.