that JSON object, and then this is clean markdown text format. You can see that it is adding this page number, so zero, and of course is by document. So this will have only one page. And you can, oh, sorry, it has more than one page. So page zero, one, and yeah.
end of the document, there were two pages here. You can see that the markdown is created. So this is like header one, this was header two, and here you can see that you have nice markdown table format. So this is how you do that with LLM, but what are the limitation here? The limitation, it can be very expensive because
you are passing all that text into LM and you are paying for this token. So this is the limitation of this method, but of course you have the advantage. Why? Because you are keeping more structure and meaning and you are producing high quality markdown. So if you later use this one,
For your retrieval agent, then you are going to have more context there. The easiest or fast and cheap version is going to be just to extract the text from that JSON tree. And yeah, that will be it. But of course, in this method, we are going to lose some important structure and semantics.
Let's say for the headings, for table, we are going to lose that format. So it's going to have less contextual information, but we don't need to pay for the tokens. We are just going to use.
UDF to apply to all columns. In this case is going to be plain text and we are going to extract the plain text. So here we are extracting the text and you can see that here we don't have any semantics here. Well, you can add semantics. I'm going to show.
you the function that we used. So this is how we are defining extract contents UDF and this UDF is basically calling this function and it is very simple function that just extract page ID from the JSON object and also extract context from JSON based on the content of the element.
That's it. There's nothing too complicated. But of course, if you want, you can improve this and more semantics to your plain text. So for example, if it is a header, you can create a markdown style for that. And it's going to also work for you.
But we kept it very simple, so that you don't need to worry about that. So that's how it's done.
Now, let's talk about chunking. So we talk about how do you transform that JSON to plain text. And now let's talk about chunking. So what is chunking? Chunking is when we have a long text and we cannot pass that long text to LLM because LLMs has limited
window length context, right? In this example, of course, our text is very short, so it's not gonna exceed the LLM window are gonna be easily able to handle this, but we are just assuming that the text is long and we want to chunk that.
Here we are going to use LangChain TextSplitter library, but you can use any chunking library out there. We don't need to use LangChain, but an example here we are using LangChain. So what we do is we define chunk size and chunk overlap. So this is how many characters is going to be used to split.
the chunks and while splitting it is going to make sure that it is overlapping by this amount. Then we can define separator, how to separate them and also the schema because this is returned text is we are going to store that in delta and we want to define the schema here.
So here it is just, we are defining a simple map in pandas function and we are splitting, calling the split rows to iterate over column. And the result is going to be like this. So we are going to use that plain text and divide it into chunks so you can see that.
This product overview document now splitted into two, so it's splitted here and splitted here, because we defined the split page here, we define as separator, we define page here, you can see that it is splitted in the page, but of course you don't see.
The...
overlapping here because the text is very short, so it's not exceeding that limit that we defined chunk size. You can play with this and yeah, maybe let's say if you make it very small chunks and you can see how the chunk overlapping works. I'm going to just
Run this an example.
Yeah, you can see that when I lower the chunk size to very small chunks, you can see that is how it is now chunking. And yeah, this is the chunked. You can see that this is chunked into very small pieces. And here you can see how it is the overlapping worked here.
In some of the examples, you don't see the overlapping, but here you can see that there is motion control and deep, and then you can see that control and deep learning, right? And here you can see that data collected, data collected. So this is helpful when you pass this.
chunks into LLM, and the overlapping is going to help the LLM to understand the previous section, of course, a little bit. And this example is very small. We just like to demonstrate it, we use a very small chunk size and a very small overlap. But let's say, imagine you have a long text and you can use one
previous paragraph as overlap and you know that the LLM is going to understand what was in the previous paragraph or maybe the next paragraph and it's going to have more context there. Or you can maybe generate, these are more advanced options, but you can generate a summary of
previous pages and pass that as overlap to the LLM and the LLM so that understand what was before that and what's coming after that too.
So that is how chunking works. And the final step, we are going to save these chunks to delta table so that we can compute embeddings, convert this plain text to embeddings and store them in vector database. To do that, we are just writing as delta.
and override and because we are merging the schema, we define the schema, we want to define the schema and save it. But that's how it is stored.
And to wrap up here, we showed how to clean a parse document using two methods. We show how you can use an LLM to use it as a semantic way of cleaning data. Then we used a simple plain text method
To extract text from JSON object, then we showed how chunking works using library to divide text into chunks and show how you can use overlap to have more kind of semantic knowledge when you chunk data.
And we store the result into delta table so that we can use it later.
That was it for this demo. Thanks for watching.
